Citation: Martínez, J.D.; Franco, R.;
Sáenz, L.M.; Alvarado, A.G.; García,
J.A.; Delgado, S.M.; Ionescu, M.-A.;
Busil˘ a, C.; Tatu, A.L. DRESS and
Stevens–Johnson Syndrome Overlap
Secondary to Allopurinol in a
50-Year-Old Man—A Diagnostic and
Treatment Challenge: Case Report.
Life2023 ,13, 2251. https://
doi.org/10.3390/life13122251
Academic Editors: Jacek C.
Szepietowski and Anette Susanne
Bøe Wolff
Received: 15 August 2023
Revised: 13 November 2023
Accepted: 23 November 2023
Published: 24 November 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
life
Case Report
DRESS and Stevens–Johnson Syndrome Overlap Secondary to
Allopurinol in a 50-Year-Old Man—A Diagnostic and Treatment
Challenge: Case Report
JoséDario Mart ínez1,*, Rodolfo Franco2
, Luis Manuel S áenz3,†, Americo Guadalupe Alvarado1,
JoséAntonio Garc ía2
, Sergio M áximo Delgado3, Marius-Anton Ionescu4,†
, Camelia Busil ă5,*
and Alin Laurentiu Tatu5,6
1Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Hospital Universitario Jos éEleuterio Gonz ález,
University Autonomous of Nuevo Le ón, Monterrey 66455, Mexico; americo.alvaradova@uanl.edu.mx
2Department of Human Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Hospital Universitario Jos éEleuterio Gonz ález,
University Autonomous of Nuevo Le ón, Monterrey 66455, Mexico; rodolfo.francomrqz@uanl.edu.mx (R.F.);
antonio.garciamnz@uanl.edu.mx (J.A.G.)
3Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital Jos éEleuterio Gonz ález, University Autonomous of Nuevo Le ón,
Monterrey 66455, Mexico; luis.saenzmdn@uanl.edu.mx (L.M.S.); sergio.delgadoj@uanl.edu.mx (S.M.D.)
4Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Saint Louis, 63110 Paris, France; dr.toni.ionescu@gmail.com
5Clinical Medical Department, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, “Dunarea de Jos” University,
800008 Galati, Romania; dralin_tatu@yahoo.com
6Dermatology Department, “Sfanta Cuvioasa Paraschiva” Hospital of Infectious Diseases,
800179 Galati, Romania
*Correspondence: jdariomtz@yahoo.com.mx (J.D.M.); camelia_busila@yahoo.com (C.B.)
†These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract: Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome is a drug
reaction commonly related to eosinophilia, from uncertain epidemiology, and without consensus
for diagnosis and treatment globally. It presents a great challenge in its management and is charac-
terized by fever, lymphadenopathy, skin rash, and multisystemic involvement. An aggressive and
difﬁcult-to-manage clinical case is presented in a 50-year-old man with chronic kidney disease due
to diabetes mellitus type 2 and systemic arterial hypertension, who developed an unusual variant
similar to DRESS and Stevens–Johnson syndrome (SJS) overlap secondary to allopurinol, with skin
manifestations without eosinophilia, but fulﬁlling clinical and laboratory criteria for DRESS and
SJS syndrome.
Keywords: allopurinol; eosinophilia; chronic kidney disease; DRESS syndrome; SJS
1. Introduction
DRESS syndrome is a rare but potentially life-threatening hypersensitivity reaction to
drugs that can involve multiple organ systems. It was ﬁrst described in 1996 by Bouquet,
and it belongs to the group of severe adverse reactions to drugs (SCARs). The other SCARs
are acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS),
and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) [1].
The incidence of DRESS syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 1000–10,000 drug exposures.
It is more common in certain populations, particularly African-American and Caribbean
populations [ 2]. There is no gender preference, and the age of onset can range from infancy
to adulthood. The most associated drugs with DRESS syndrome are aromatic anticon-
vulsants such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, and phenobarbital, as well as sulfonamides,
dapsone, minocycline, allopurinol, calcium channel blockers, terbinaﬁne, nonsteroidal
anti-inﬂammatory drugs, and antiretroviral drugs [1].
Life2023 ,13, 2251. https://doi.org/10.3390/life13122251 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/lifeLife2023 ,13, 2251 2 of 8
One of the main clinical manifestations of DRESS syndrome is a maculopapular rash,
which can be accompanied by fever and other systemic symptoms [ 3]. The onset of symp-
toms usually occurs within 2 to 6 weeks after exposure to the culprit drug. Fulminant liver
failure is the most common cause of death, with a mortality rate of 10–20%. The true inci-
dence of DRESS/DIHS is still unknown, but it has been reported at around 10 per million .
DRESS syndrome can recur; a systematic review that included 42 articles concluded that
the average time to recurrence is 124 days, it usually presents with a higher fever and a
higher number of eosinophils, generally attributed to another causal drug. In this study, it
is mentioned that the survival of recurrences was 71% [4–6].
SJS is a rare, life-threatening mucocutaneous reaction that can also be caused by drug
exposure. It has an incidence of 1.5–6.0 cases per million, and it is characterized by the
detachment of the epidermis from the dermis, leading to widespread skin blistering and
mucosal erosions. SJS is differentiated from TEN by the percentage of body surface area
affected: <than 10% for SJS, 10–30% for SJS/TEN overlap, and >30% for TEN [7].
A study conducted in 2023 aimed to estimate the incidence of SJS/TEN and included a
total of 51,040 hospitalizations. The results showed a predominance of SJS (73%), followed
by the SJS/TEN overlap (15.3%) and TEN (14%). Females were more frequently affected
(57.2%), and the highest mortality was observed in patients with TEN (15%). Advanced age,
chronic kidney disease, pneumonia, and neoplasms were also associated with mortality in
SJS/TEN [8].
Although there are no speciﬁc literature or clinical studies available on the overlap
of DRESS/SJS syndrome, these SCARs share overlapping clinical manifestations that can
sometimes make it challenging to differentiate them. The diagnostic and therapeutic
approach to treating DRESS/SJS overlap is a complex issue that requires further research.
2. Case Report
A 50-year-old man arrived at the emergency department with a widespread scaly rash
covering his face, chest, abdomen, and back. He also had facial swelling, lymphadenopathy,
and mucous membrane involvement (see Figure 1A,B). Upon admission, his physical
examination revealed a temperature of 37.8C, weight of 80 kg, height of 1.78 m, and a
BMI of 25.3. According to family members, he had been taking 300 mg of allopurinol for
two weeks before the rash’s appearance as he was diagnosed with hyperuricemia. He had
also experienced a fever and upper respiratory tract illness the week before. The patient
had a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus for 15 years, multiple lower limb amputations
due to diabetic neuropathy and poorly controlled hypertension being treated with losartan
and metformin and rapid-acting insulin. Upon admission, we stopped the suspected
drug using the Naranjo score. The patient was uncooperative and obtunded. Laboratory
abnormalities included a Hb of 8.97 g/dL, hematocrit (HTO) of 29.3%, white blood cells
(WBC) of 19.3 K/ L, eosinophils of 0.002 K/ L, platelets of 295,000/mm3plasma glucose
level of 143 mg/dL, serum creatinine level of 10.3 mg/dL, BUN level of 150 mg/dL,
serum potassium level of 7.2 mmol/L, serum sodium level of 156 mmol/L, and abnormal
liver function tests including AST level of 120 UI/L, ALT level of 113 UI/L, ALP level
of439 UI/L , total bilirubin level of 3.3 mg/dL, direct bilirubin level of 1.9 mg/dL, and
LDH level of 331 UI/L. We consulted nephrology for hemodialysis and dermatology for
a suspected drug-induced skin reaction. Dermatology performed a skin biopsy, which
revealed a spongiotic and acantholytic lesion, suggesting an epidermal necrolysis (see
Figure 2A–E). Although no tests were carried out to identify the reactivation of HHV 6–7
or EBV , the human pathology department diagnosed Stevens–Johnson syndrome, and the
clinical features met the criteria for DRESS. We initiated intravenous corticosteroid therapy
at a dose of 4 mg/kg/BID, which was later increased to 8 mg/kg/BID due to poor clinical
response (see Figure 1B).Life2023 ,13, 2251 3 of 8
Life 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 8 
 
  
Figure 1. Clinical ﬁndings show facial edema with scaling an d involvement of the oral and conjunc-
tival mucosa ( A). Back with scaling erythematous exanthema and positive Nikolsky sign ( B). 
 
Figure 2. Histologic ﬁndings are characterized by  the presence of spongiotic and acantholytic le-
sions, with numerous full-thickness apoptotic and necrotic keratinocytes of the epidermis in some 
areas ( A). Dense in ﬂammatory in ﬁltrate of the mixed interface,  predominantly lymphocytic and 
polymorphonuclear ( B). Disruption of the epidermis with nu merous apoptotic bodies, incontinence 
of pigment, and extravasation of erythrocytes ( C). Acantholysis and full-thickness necrosis of the 
epidermis ( D). Vasculitis at the level of deep vessels is associated with a dense lymphocytic and 
neutrophilic in ﬁltrate ( E). Hematoxylin and eosin. Original magni ﬁcation 2× ( A), 10× ( B), 20× ( C–E). 
The patient met 6 out of 7 RegiSCAR criteria for DRESS and showed clinical features 
of SJS. The DIHS severity score was 8. Despite intensive multidisciplinary management, 
the patient s renal damage and direct toxicity of allopurinol resulted in the need for oxy-
gen and respiratory distress, followed by cardiac arrest and death on the ninth day of hospitalization. 
  
Figure 1. Clinical ﬁndings show facial edema with scaling and involvement of the oral and conjuncti-
val mucosa ( A). Back with scaling erythematous exanthema and positive Nikolsky sign ( B).
Life 2023 , 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 8 
 
  
Figure 1. Clinical ﬁndings show facial edema with scaling an d involvement of the oral and conjunc-
tival mucosa ( A). Back with scaling erythematous exanthema and positive Nikolsky sign ( B). 
 
Figure 2. Histologic ﬁndings are characterized by  the presence of spongiotic and acantholytic le-
sions, with numerous full-thickness apoptotic and necrotic keratinocytes of the epidermis in some 
areas ( A). Dense in ﬂammatory in ﬁltrate of the mixed interface,  predominantly lymphocytic and 
polymorphonuclear ( B). Disruption of the epidermis with nu merous apoptotic bodies, incontinence 
of pigment, and extravasation of erythrocytes ( C). Acantholysis and full-thickness necrosis of the 
epidermis ( D). Vasculitis at the level of deep vessels is associated with a dense lymphocytic and 
neutrophilic in ﬁltrate ( E). Hematoxylin and eosin. Original magni ﬁcation 2× ( A), 10× ( B), 20× ( C–E). 
The patient met 6 out of 7 RegiSCAR criteria for DRESS and showed clinical features 
of SJS. The DIHS severity score was 8. Despite intensive multidisciplinary management, 
the patient s renal damage and direct toxicity of allopurinol resulted in the need for oxy-
gen and respiratory distress, followed by cardiac arrest and death on the ninth day of hospitalization. 
  
Figure 2. Histologic ﬁndings are characterized by the presence of spongiotic and acantholytic
lesions, with numerous full-thickness apoptotic and necrotic keratinocytes of the epidermis in some
areas ( A). Dense inﬂammatory inﬁltrate of the mixed interface, predominantly lymphocytic and
polymorphonuclear ( B). Disruption of the epidermis with numerous apoptotic bodies, incontinence
of pigment, and extravasation of erythrocytes ( C). Acantholysis and full-thickness necrosis of the
epidermis ( D). Vasculitis at the level of deep vessels is associated with a dense lymphocytic and
neutrophilic inﬁltrate ( E). Hematoxylin and eosin. Original magniﬁcation 2 (A), 10(B), 20(C–E).Life2023 ,13, 2251 4 of 8
The patient met 6 out of 7 RegiSCAR criteria for DRESS and showed clinical features
of SJS. The DIHS severity score was 8. Despite intensive multidisciplinary management, the
patient’s renal damage and direct toxicity of allopurinol resulted in the need for oxygen and
respiratory distress, followed by cardiac arrest and death on the ninth day of hospitalization.
3. Discussion
The pathophysiological basis of the disease is not fully understood, but it is identiﬁed
as a type 4b delayed hypersensitivity mechanism according to the Coombs and Gell
classiﬁcation [ 9]. There are also different proposed mechanisms, including issues in drug
metabolism, slow acetylation, and reactivation of the Epstein Barr, HSV 6, and 7 viruses [ 10].
Recent evidence indicates an association between speciﬁc HLA haplotypes and the use of
certain medications with a higher risk of developing this syndrome. For instance, HLA B
13:01 haplotype has been linked to the use of dapsone, HLA B 58:01 to allopurinol, and
HLA B 32:01 to vancomycin [ 11]. DRESS syndrome is characterized by cutaneous and
hematological manifestations with multisystemic involvement. Symptoms usually start
between 2 and 90 days with an average of 23 days after consumption of the causative
drug [ 12]. It usually involves a prodromal period characterized by fever, lymphadenopathy,
pruritus, and ﬂu-like symptoms [9].
In a recent study that included 125 patients who met DRESS criteria, it was found
that the rash usually involves typically >50% of the body surface area (BSA) in 97.6% of
cases a maculopapular morphology shown to be the most prevalent (84.6%). Typical facial
edema appears in up to 53.8% and mucosal involvement occurs in up to 32.8% [ 5]. In
another study that included 27 patients with DRESS, 100% of the sample had a history
of fever, 88.8% developed lymphadenopathy, 92.5% had eosinophilia, and the liver was
primarily involved in 100% of cases [ 13]. The liver plays a central role in this disease and is
the main cause of death. A systematic review, aimed at identifying other affected organs,
indicated that esophagitis, gastritis, enteritis, colitis, pancreatitis, and even fulminant type
1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus may also be present in this syndrome [ 14].
The Naranjo score is a questionnaire that includes 10 questions whose objective is to
determine the presence of an adverse drug reaction. A score of 0 suggests a doubtful
diagnosis, 1–4 points indicate a possible reaction, 5–8 points suggest probability, and a
score9 points establishes the diagnosis of an adverse drug reaction. Naranjo score alone
has low sensitivity, and clinical judgment is necessary to avoid underestimation [ 15,16].
Several diagnostic criteria for DRESS syndrome exist, including those proposed by Bouquet
in 1996, criteria by the RegiSCAR group, and those established by the Japanese J-SCAR
consensus. (Table 1).
Table 1. Diagnosis criteria for DRESS [1].
RegiSCAR J-SCAR Bouquet
HospitalizationA maculopapular rash developed more
than 3 weeks after starting treatment with
any drug.Drug-related skin rash
Acute skin rashPersistent clinical symptoms after
discontinuation of the offending drug.Hematological abnormalities.
Atypical lympho cytes.
Systemic envelope
Suspicion of reaction caused by drugs
Fever >38C
Growing of lymph nodes > 2 places
Hematological abnormalities
(Lymphocyto sis or lymphocytopenia,
eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia)Fever > 38C. Hepatic abnormalities.
Leukocytosis.
Atypical lymphocytes. Lymphadenopathy.
HSV 6/7 reactivation.Lymphadenopathy
>2 cm
Hepatitis with elevated transaminases
>2 times normal
Interstitial nephritis
Interstitial pneumonitisLife2023 ,13, 2251 5 of 8
Drugs associated with DRESS syndrome are associated with speciﬁc organ damage,
allopurinol has been shown to target the kidney, phenytoin causes liver damage, and
carbamazepine causes damage to both. (Table 2).
Table 2. Drugs and target organs [1,5].
Drug Target Organ
Allopurinol Kidney
Carbamazepine Heart Liver and kidney
Ampicillin Dapsone Minocycline Liver, lung and heart
Phenytoin Liver
A skin biopsy is necessary to rule out other potential conditions, as the observed
changes are not usually pathognomonic of DRESS. These changes include spongiosis,
subcorneal pustules, apoptotic keratinocytes, mixed inﬁltrates of the superﬁcial dermis,
vacuolar changes, and extravasation [ 17]. The differential diagnosis should include other
severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) such as SJS, TEN, and SJS-TEN overlap. The
latter conditions are often related to the same drugs linked to DRESS syndrome and share a
similar prodromal period. SJS/TEN may manifest in the skin as erythematous or violaceous
patches, atypical targetoid lesions, bullae, erosions, and necrosis. The bullae is usually
associated with a positive Nikolsky sign. Around 80% of patients with SJS/TEN may
have mucosal involvement [ 7]. Another SCAR to consider in the differential diagnosis is
AGEP , which manifests as non-follicular pustules on an erythematous base, distributed
favorably to the extremities (44.2%), trunk (23.3%), face (23.3%), and potential involvement
the oral mucosa (11.6%) [ 18]. In the current context, the differential diagnosis should
include adverse skin reactions induced by the vaccine vs. COVID-19, which can cause
redness to morbilliform to urticarial rashes [19].
Studies have also identiﬁed various factors associated with mortality in patients with
SJS/TEN, including advanced age, chronic kidney disease, pneumonia, and neoplasms [ 8].
Additionally, research has demonstrated that the number of criteria fulﬁlled according to
the RegiSCAR group’s classiﬁcation system can indicate the aggressiveness of DRESS, with
facial edema being a particularly signiﬁcant cutaneous parameter in determining a more se-
vere form of the syndrome [ 20]. Another study involving 91 patients diagnosed with DRESS
reported 13 fatalities, with speciﬁc clinical markers such as age over 40, increased heart
rate, fever, elevated BUN levels, leukopenia or leukocytosis, and elevated ALT and AST
levels associated with poor prognosis [ 21]. The severity scoring system for DiHS/DRESS
has proven useful in monitoring severity, predicting prognosis, and stratifying the risk of
developing CMV disease and complications [ 22]. The initial step in treatment is the imme-
diate discontinuation of the offending drug [ 1]. The primary pharmacological treatment for
DRESS involves systemic corticosteroids. Recommended doses include intravenous dex-
amethasone (4–8 mg/kg/every 8–12 h) and IV methylprednisolone (10–30 mg/kg/dose)
during the ﬁrst week, followed by tapering with prednisolone (0.5–2 mg/kg/day ) ad-
ministered in 2–3 months. Systemic corticosteroid treatment is gradually tapered over
3 months [ 23]. As an alternative treatment for DRESS, the effectiveness of cyclosporine,
a calcineurin inhibitor and potent immunosuppressant has been demonstrated. This is
particularly beneﬁcial for patients who experience adverse reactions to corticosteroids. The
initial dose of cyclosporine is 3–5 mg/kg/day, the dose is increased or decreased up to
50 mg based on the response of the patient, and the duration of treatment ranges from 35
to 76 days [24].
A retrospective cohort study published in 2023 whose objective was to compare the
use of systemic steroids vs. topical use in the treatment of DRESS syndrome included
94 patients , 44% received treatment with topical steroids, while the remaining 56% received
IV steroids. Patients treated with IV corticosteroids had a higher risk of infectious complica-
tions; however, no difference in mortality or hospital stay was found. The study concludes
that the use of topical corticosteroids is controversial, but may be a safe and effective alter-Life2023 ,13, 2251 6 of 8
native, but with a slow response in mild-moderate DRESS [ 25]. Treatment with IV steroids
should not be changed rapidly to topical therapy; instead should be tapered progressively
in order to prevent relapses, even when the clinical evolution is favorable [26].
4. Conclusions
The case of our patient presented a diagnostic challenge, showcasing a rare and
potentially lethal combination of DRESS and SJS syndromes. Despite the absence of
eosinophilia, which is characteristic of DRESS, the patient fulﬁlled the majority of the
diagnostic criteria established by both the RegiSCAR and J-SCAR groups. Additionally, the
patient exhibited a scaly exanthema, a feature observed in a small percentage of patients
with DRESS [ 3,13]. Notably, our patient had severe mucosal and eye involvement, similar
to SJS patients, and displayed a positive Nikolsky sign in certain areas of his body.
Managing this case was further complicated by the patient’s chronic kidney disease,
exacerbated by allopurinol-induced kidney damage. This complexity made it challenging
to adequately replenish insensible losses and excluded the use of cyclosporine, a drug
that has shown utility in treating DRESS/SJS. Certain clinical and biochemical parameters,
including elevated thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) levels, C-reactive
protein levels over 5 mg/L, extensive skin rash covering more than 35% of the body surface
area, and eosinophilia over 6%, have been identiﬁed as predictors of severe DRESS [27].
It should be emphasized that true overlaps, where a patient meets the diagnostic
criteria for two SCARs simultaneously, are very uncommon but can occur. The limited
scientiﬁc literature on overlaps is surprising, considering that the causative drugs are
typically the same. Reported cases, such as the overlap between DRESS and SJS due to
allopurinol and DRESS and AGEP due to piperacillin/tazobactam, highlight the importance
of suspecting overlaps and acting swiftly when overlapping clinical or histopathological
features are present [ 28,29]. A retrospective study aimed at identifying overlaps among
SCARs revealed that 21% of the 216 patients studied had two possible diagnoses, with
only 2.1% being true SCARs [ 30]. Additionally, a series of two cases of DRESS/SJS-TEN
overlap due to benznidazole reported by Gonzalez Ramos et al. emphasizes the diagnostic
challenge of this situation and the need for quick suspicion and treatment due to its
potential life-threatening nature [31].
In conclusion, our patient features clinical, laboratory, and biopsy parameters that
meet the criteria for DREES and SJS. It was a rare and complex case in the diagnosis and
management that requires high suspicion and rapid intervention because of its potential
lethality. Both drug reactions are by themselves life-threatening conditions and together
are even worse. Further research and understanding of SCAR /acute.ts1s overlaps are necessary to
improve diagnostic accuracy and guide clinicians in managing these complex cases.
Author Contributions: J.D.M., R.F., L.M.S., C.B., A.L.T. and M.-A.I.: contributed equally to the
manuscript, writing, and critical revision thereof for important intellectual content. A.G.A., J.A.G.
and S.M.D.: contributed equally to the creation of the initial draft (including translation). All authors
have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Informed Consent Statement: Written consent for the publication of pictures and personal informa-
tion was obtained from the patient described in this case report.
Data Availability Statement: The data included in this manuscript cannot be shared publicly, due to
the need to protect the privacy of the included subjects. Data may be shared upon reasonable request
to the corresponding author.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.Life2023 ,13, 2251 7 of 8
Abbreviations
DRESS Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
SCARs Severe cutaneous adverse reactions
SJS Stevens–Johnson Syndrome
TEN Toxic epidermal necrolysis
AGEP Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis
HLA Human leukocyte antigens
DIHS Drug-Induced Hypersensitivity Syndrome
HSV Herpes Simplex Virus
TARC Thymus and activation-regulated chemokine
References
1. Ocampo, J.; Ocampo, S.S.; Mart ínez, J.D.; Barbosa, L.E.; Guerrero, G.A.; Ocampo, J. Reacci ón por drogas con eosinoﬁlia y s íntomas
sistémicos (s índrome de DRESS): Estudio retrospectivo de nuevecasos. Rev. Med. Chile 2015 ,143, 577–583. [CrossRef]
2. Cabañas, R.; Ram írez, E.; Sendagorta, E.; Alamar, R.; Barranco, R.; L ópez, N.; Doña, I.; Fern ández, J.; Garcia, I.; Garc ía, J.; et al.
Spanish Guidelines forDiagnosis, Management, Treatment, and Prevention of DRESS Syndrome. J. Invest. Aller. Clin. Immunol.
2020 ,30, 229–253. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3. Lee, J.W.; Lee, S.R.; Kim, M.J.; Cho, S.; Youn, S.W.; Yang, M.S.; Kim, S.H.; Kang, H.R.; Kwon, O. Skin manifestations and clinical
features of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms: A retrospective multicentre study of 125 patients. J. Eur.
Acad. Dermatol. Ven. 2022 ,36, 1584–1592. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
4. López, E.; Blancas, L.; Rodr íguez, K.; Gaspar, A.; O’Farrill, P .; Amaya, A.; Galindo, L.; Campos, F.; Aguilar, N.; Su árez, G.
Prevalence of DRESS syndrome. Rev. Alerg. Mex. 2014 ,61, 14–23. [CrossRef]
5. Cardones, A.R. Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome. Clin. Dermatol. 2020 ,38, 702–711.
[CrossRef]
6. Sharma, A.N.; Shwe, S.; Ravi, V .; Miller, M.; Mesinkovska, N.A.; Rojek, N.W.; Worswick, S. Characterizing DRESS syndrome
recurrence a systematic review. Arch. Dermatol. Res. 2022 ,314, 721–728. [CrossRef]
7. Schneider, J.A.; Cohen, P .R. Stevens-Johnson Syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis: A Concise Review with a Comprehensive
Summary of Therapeutic Interventions Emphasizing Supportive Measures. Adv. Ther. 2017 ,34, 1235–1244. [CrossRef]
8. Wasuwanich, P .; So, J.M.; Chakrala, T.S.; Chen, J.; Motaparthi, K. Epidemiology of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal
necrolysis in the United States and factors predictive of outcome. JAAD Int. 2023 ,13, 17–25. [CrossRef]
9. Burks, A.W.; O’Hehir, R.E.; Broide, D.H.; Holgate, S.T.; Bacharier, L.B.; Hershey, G.K.K.; Peebles, R.S. Middleton’s Allergy: Principles
and Practice ; Elsevier: Edinburgh, UK, 2020.
10. Cacoub, P .; Musette, P .; Descamps, V .; Meyer, O.; Speirs, C.; Finzi, L.; Roujeau, J.C. The DRESS syndrome: A literature review. Am.
J. Med. 2011 ,124, 588–597. [CrossRef]
11. Hama, N.; Abe, R.; Gibson, A.; Phillips, E.J. Drug-Induced Hypersensitivity Syndrome (DIHS)/Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia
and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS): Clinical Features and Pathogenesis. J. Aller. Clin. Immunol. 2022 ,10, 1155–1167.e5. [CrossRef]
12. Morán, C.; Alva, C.; De la Cruz, W.; Quincho, A.; Mori, N.; Pacheco, J.; Romero, R. Drug reaction with eosinophilia and
systemic symptoms (DRESS) induced by phenytoin re-exposure: Case report and systematic review. Clin. Belg. 2022 ,77, 177–185.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
13. Walsh, S.; Diaz, S.; Higgins, E.; Morris, R.; Bashir, S.; Bernal, W.; Creamer, D. Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic
symptoms:is cutaneous phenotype a prognostic marker for outcome? A review of clinicopathological features of 27 cases. Br. J.
Dermatol. 2013 ,168, 391–401. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
14. Jevtic, D.; Dumic, I.; Nordin, T.; Singh, A.; Sulovic, N.; Radovanovic, M.; Jecmenica, M.; Milovanovic, T. Less Known Gastroin-
testinal Manifestations of Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Syndrome: A Systematic Review of
the Literature. J. Clin. Med. 2021 ,10, 4287. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
15. Verbiˇ c, M.D.; Brvar, M.; Kos, M.K. Adverse drug reactions in the ambulatory internal patients at the emergency department:
Focus on causality assessment and drug-drug interactions. Acta Pharm. 2023 ,73, 195–210. [CrossRef]
16. Tatu, A.L.; Nwabudike, L.C. Bullous Reactions Associated With COX-2 Inhibitors. Am. J. Ther. 2017 ,24, 477–480. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
17. Cho, Y.T.; Yang, C.W.; Chu, C.Y. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS): An Interplay among Drugs,
Viruses, and Immune System. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 ,18, 1243. [CrossRef]
18. Lei, H.; Deng, H.; Liu, X.; Li, Z.; Wang, C. Clinical features, diagnosis and management of cephalosporin-induced acute
generalized exanthematous pustulosis. J. Clin. Pharm. Ther. 2022 ,47, 2008–2013. [CrossRef]
19. Qaderi, K.; Golezar, M.H.; Mardani, A.; Mallah, M.A.; Moradi, B.; Kavoussi, H.; Shamsabadi, A.; Golezar, S. Cutaneous adverse
reactions of COVID-19 vaccines: A systematic review. Dermatol. Ther. 2022 ,35, e15391. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
20. Momen, S.E.; Diaz-Cano, S.; Walsh, S.; Creamer, D. Discriminating minor and major forms of drug reaction with eosinophilia and
systemic symptoms: Facial edema aligns to the severe phenotype. J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 2021 ,85, 645–652. [CrossRef]Life2023 ,13, 2251 8 of 8
21. Wei, C.H.; Chung-Yee Hui, R.; Chang, C.J.; Ho, H.C.; Yang, C.H.; Lin, Y.J.; Chung, W.H. Identifying prognostic factors for drug
rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS). Eur. J. Dermatol. 2011 ,21, 930–937. [CrossRef]
22. Mizukawa, Y.; Hirahara, K.; Kano, Y.; Shiohara, T. Drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome/drug reaction with eosinophilia
and systemic symptoms severity score: A useful tool for assessing disease severity and predicting fatal cytomegalovirus disease.
J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 2019 ,80, 670–678.e2. [CrossRef]
23. Verstegen, R.H.J.; Phillips, E.J.; Juurlink, D.N. First-line therapy in drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
(DRESS): Thinking beyond corticosteroids. Front. Med. 2023 ,10, 1138464. [CrossRef]
24. Su, H.J.; Chen, C.B.; Yeh, T.Y.; Chung, W.H. Successful treatment of corticosteroid-dependent drug reaction with eosinophilia and
systemic symptoms with cyclosporine. An. Aller. Asthma Immunol. 2021 ,127, 674–681. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25. Lian, B.S.; Ha, J.H.; Sultana, R.; Chan, L.C.E.; Choo, K.J.L.; Yeo, Y.W.; Lee, H.Y. Systemic Versus Topical Corticosteroids in the
Treatment of DRESS: A Retrospective Cohort Study Followed by a Meta-Analysis. Am. J. Clin. Dermatol. 2023 ,24, 637–647.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
26. Brin, C.; Bernigaud, C.; Hua, C.; Duong, T.A.; Gaudin, O.; Colin, A.; De Prost, N.; Wolkenstein, P .; Chosidow, O.;
Ingen-Housz-Oro, S. Impact of systemic to topical steroids switch on the outcome of drug reaction with eosinophilia
and systemic symptoms (DRESS): A monocenter retrospective study of 20 cases. Ann. Dermatol. Ven. 2021 ,148, 168–171.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
27. Choudhary, R.; Vinay, K.; Srivastava, N.; Bishnoi, A.; Kamat, D.; Parsad, D.; Bhatia, A.; Kumaran, M.S. Clinical, biochemical, and
sero-logic predictors of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms syndrome: A prospective case-control study.
J. Am. Acad. Dermatol. 2021 ,85, 901–909. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
28. Casagranda, A.; Suppa, M.; Dehavay, F.; Del Marmol, V . Overlapping DRESS and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome: Case Report and
Review of the Literature. Case Rep. Dermatol. 2017 ,9, 1–7. [CrossRef]
29. Kim, T.I.; Jeong, K.H.; Shin, M.K.; Kim, N.I. Piperacillin/tazobactam-associated hypersensitivity syndrome with overlapping
features of acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis and drug-related rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
syndrome. Ann. Dermatol. 2016 ,28, 98–101. [CrossRef]
30. Bouvresse, S.; Valeyrie-Allanore, L.; Ortonne, N.; Konstantinou, M.P .; Kardaun, S.H.; Bagot, M.; Wolkenstein, P .; Roujeau, J.C.
Toxic epidermal necrolysis, DRESS, AGEP: Do overlap cases exist? Orphanet. J. Rare Dis. 2012 ,7, 72. [CrossRef]
31. Gonz ález-Ramos, J.; Noguera-Morel, L.; Tong, H.Y.; Ram írez, E.; Ruiz-Bravo, E.; Bell ón, T.; Cabañas, R.; Cachafeiro, L.; Pinto-
Herranz, P . Two cases of overlap severe cutaneous adverse reactions to benznidazole treatment for asymptomatic Chagas disease
in a nonendemic country. Br. J. Dermatol. 2016 ,175, 604–607. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.